# Challenge 145 - ASCII Digital Clock

## Summary

This ASCII digital clock was developed in Microsoft Visual Studio using Visual C++.

## Implementation

The implementation of this clock is naive and simple. The ASCII "art" is generated by a simple
function that reads in the current time from the system clock, parses each digit from that time
and sends that digit to a function with a big switch statement that routes that digit to its
ASCII representation. The function is called a few times a second to try and keep up with the
passage of time and update itself as soon as it can.

The tricky part was displaying the time in ASCII form one row of characters at a time. It was
easy, if not a little tedious, to make ASCII forms of each character, but there are six characters
side by side in a time string. Simply printing out each ASCII numeral would result in an endlessly
descending stream of ASCII numbers as they print themselves over and over on new lines. My solution
to this was to have a string for each row and to append the ASCII characters of each digit on that
row to that string, then print out the row strings in order. Again, a rather naive and ugly solution,
but it works well enough for the purposes of just showing the time in ASCII format. I also flush
the terminal each time I print so the characters are updated in place rather than another form of
the endlessly descending timestamp printing in the terminal.

## Installation

???

## Usage

Simply run the program to see a simple ASCII version of the current time displayed in the console.

## Things That Can Be Improved

There are several things that could be added to this program to make it a little more interesting,
such as dates and AM/PM clock support (it's only 24-hour clock right now). The implementation of
the actual clock itself could also use an overhaul to use a more elegant solution than the naive
one that is being used currently.

We could also look into making this a GUI. The title of "ASCII Digital Clock" made me think immediately
of a CLI program, but there's no reason it has to be housed only on the command line.

## License

This program is licensed under the GNU GPL3 license.
